# Engineering-Design
# Project Management
As engineering projects increase in size, complexity, and duration, project management can become a very complex process. There are a wide variety of computer tools and experts that focus specifically on the methodologies associated with effective project management. The purpose of this reading is to give merely an introduction into the concepts and terminologies that are important for effective functioning on engineering project teams.
Project management consists of three components: scope, budget, and schedule. Scope defines the specific work that must be completed for the project to be successful (both in terms of quantity and quality). Budget describes the resources that must be committed to the project, which can be described in terms of money but also in terms of personnel, their effort (time) and materials. Schedule is the logical connection of the various tasks that must be performed, in terms of duration, interdependence, and the constraints of project deadlines.
Effective project management must include all three components. However, our focus at this point will be on scope and scheduling, and a few methods/tools for managing these aspects of projects. Your textbook describes a checklist as the simplest tool for monitoring project tasks. A slightly more structured tool is a work breakdown structure (WBS), which is used to outline all the specific tasks involved in a given project, grouped into related tasks. It is essentially a structured version of a checklist. See https://www.workbreakdownstructure.com/ for an example and further explanation.
A work breakdown structure typically only describes the specific tasks necessary to complete a project. It does not show the dependency of any given task on other tasks, time required to complete any given task, nor the sequencing of the tasks. There are, however, a variety of tools that can be used to show all of these things. One of the simplest of these tools is known as Gantt charts. Gantt charts are fairly common and easy to interpret, with each bar representing the duration of a given task. However, they do not typically show the interdependency among tasks. An example is shown here: http://www.ganttchart.com/BasicGanttExample.html
In order to show those connections among tasks, a network (or precedence) diagram is typically used. The most common methods are the Program Evaluation Review Technique (PERT) Chart and the Critical Path Method (CPM), which are functionally equivalent. CPM diagrams can require a fair amount of effort to create, given that you need to identify in advance how much time and resources each task will require and how the tasks are interrelated. However, they consequently provide far more information in the management of large projects, with regard to coordinating personnel, budgets, equipment, etc.
All of the above are merely tools to aid teams in ensuring a quality result for their projects. It is important to remember that project success is highly dependent on effective teamwork, well-defined project statements and criteria for success, and effective communication. It is critically important that a project team records the “who, what, when, and how” for every task and communicate that information among all members of the team. It is equally important that a project management strategy includes appropriate “check points” within the project to confirm that the various elements of the project are remaining within the previously determined scope, budget, and schedule.  
# project 1 - build robot 
The goal was to build a robot from the EV3 Lego Kit that could follow a black line using a light sensor. The robot should later be capable of carrying a ball and continue to follow the line with the ball elevated. After programming the robot to follow the black line, calculations were made on how fast, reliable, and how long it took for the robot to accomplish the intended task on a given track.  
The initial goal was to build a robot from the EV3 Lego Kit that could follow a black line using a light sensor. The next step was to make the robot capable of lifting and carrying a ball elevated and continue to follow the line with the ball elevated.


# Project 2 – Cell Phone App Inventor  
Background: With the growth of smart phone prevalence in society, a large market has developed for innovative mobile software that solves a problem or provides entertainment. In this project, you and your engineering team will apply the engineering design process you have learned in lecture and lab to develop an application that meets a currently unfulfilled need. Your team will use the design, build, test and validate process to develop an application from the initial concept to a final fully-functional prototype.  
Objective: Create an original Android cell phone game. Teams are to thoroughly research applicable background information on the game of interest to ensure there is a need for the proposed application that is not currently being met with apps that are available in the Google Play Store. At least one team member must own an Android phone, as the applications must operate on an Android based device. Each team will use MIT App Inventor to create a cell phone game that MUST contain all of the following characteristics:  
1. Graphical user interface (GUI) with images and a professional appearance
 2. At least a.
b. c. d. e. f.
two of the following features:
GPS capability
Artificial Intelligence (i.e. a programmed computer opponent in a game) SMS / Text messages sent from program
Video or animation playback of user created video/animation Input/Output from databases or websites
Storage of user information (i.e. high score in a game)
3. Outputs sound
4. Full functionality and capable of running on an Android phone  
Please see the poster
